Developmental   Association for Human Advancement

Particulars   Details  Legal Name of the Organization   Developmental Association for Human Advancement - DEHAT  Nature of the Organization   Society  Registration Number   Society Registration Act - 21, 1860: 370/2000  Registration Date   21 August, 2000 (22 Years of Existence)  Authorised Contact Person   Devyani Chaturvedi (Secretary - Cum - Chief Executive)  Head Office   “Sewakunj”, Maseehabad Road via Kati   Chauraha , Huzoorpur Marg, Bahraich  Email   joinus@dehatindia.org ,   devyani@dehatindia.org  NITI Aayog Darpan UID   UP/2009/023065  PAN Number   AAAAD3793Q  TAN Number   LKND07117F  12AA Registration Number and Validity   AAAAD3793QE20165 (Valid till 31 March, 2027)  80G Registration Number and Validity   AAAAD3793QF2021301 (Valid till 31 March, 2027)  FCRA Registration Number and Validity   136260010 (Valid till 30 June, 2022)  PWD Act Registration Number   3998/2017 - 18  Tata Institute of Social Sciences (Assessment and Empanelment Standards for  Development Institutions in India) UID  TISS AESDII/2017/12/30 Empanelled with “Advanced” Category in ”Large  Scale Operations with ‘A’ Grade  Bombay Stock Exchange, Confederation of Industries in India and Indian Institute of  Corporate Affairs Accreditation (BSE - Samman) UID   6341  Charities Aid Foundation Accreditation UID   275/N - 21/2016 - 17  GuideStar Transparency Key UID   1650  Annual Turnover Average for the last three years   INR 1.79 Crores (17.9 Million)  Organization Credentials

Vision, Mission and Theory of Change  A child centred society in which all children enjoy the fullest  scope of their rights and lead fulfilling lives.  To educate, organize and empower the deprived and  underprivileged sections of society, in order to ensure the basic  rights of the children  If children are assured of their survival, protection and  participation in the development process, only then can a  society achieve sustainable development.

What do we do?  RIGHT TO SURVIVAL   RIGHT TO DEVELOPMENT   RIGHT TO PARTICIPATION RIGHT TO PROTECTION

What do we do under each of these UNCRC Rights and  it’s link with SDGs  OUR END RESULT  MODEL FOR  CHILD RIGHTS  SECURE  LIVELIHOOD  SAFE  PREGNANCY  EXCELLENT  EDUCATION  HEALTHY BIRTH &  NURISHING CARE  UNTIL INFANT  TURNS 5  PARTICIPATION IN  THE  DEVELOPEMENT  PROCESS OF THE  SOCIETY  CHILD  PROTECTION  Complementing SDGs

Process  Behaviour  Change  Demand  Generation  System  Strengthening  Service  Delivery

Communities in underserved areas are  deprived of quality information,  education, training and exposure. Due  to limited opportunities, they follow  harmful practices which put them at  risk.   Therefore, we’re committed to  helping a community transform its  practices in a way that improves their  quality of life.  Numerous government provisions  are in place but due to lack of  awareness, they remain  inaccessible to the eligible  communities, especially the  marginalized sections.   Therefore,  we’re committed to making sure  that everyone in our communities is  aware of the State’s policies and  actions which might improve their  quality of life or infringe upon their  basic rights.  DEHAT believes that some  government provisions are unable  to robustly benefit the concerned  communities. Furthermore,  Government programs may  underperform due to lack of  mutual understanding,  communication between the  concerned stakeholders. Therefore,  we’re committed to strengthening  the Government systems which are  working for the welfare and  development of its communities  through generating community  support, capacity building, and  awareness campaigns about  Programs, Schemes and Acts.  DEHAT believes that no organization  can be an alternate to the  government. As a welfare state system,  the government is responsible for all  kinds of welfare services. Due to this  belief, we always empower  communities to raise demands of their  needs. DEHAT observes in some cases  that government support for suffering  communities is taking too long.   Parallel  to the demands, DEHAT is committed to  providing its services to the community  until the realization of government  support.  How do we do it?

Social Movements  Rights and  Entitlements  Natural Resource  Management  Human Protection  Programmes

Possible Engagements  •   Engagements with the programme activities  §   Engage with the field level activities in three locations of Uttar Pradesh (cross - learning)  §   Engage with Primary Stakeholders including Community Based Organisations and Child Parliaments  §   Engage in the networking practices and capacity building with different government stakeholders  §   Work with the constitutional fellows  •   Research and Documentation  §   Secondary research for revamping of DEHAT’s website  §   Annual Report Content, Photography and Graphic Designing  §   Case Study compendiums  §   Documentation of best practices across all the programmes  §   Document training curriculums/modules for training programmes catering to concerned  §   Develop Information Education and Communication (IEC) materials for different stakeholders  §   Analysis and interpretation of existing data  §   Impact Assessment of Small Project  §   Journey of the people within the DEHAT  Engage with Strategic Leadership and Core Team of the organisation on different aspects  of Organisation Development

Where do we work?  District   Block  Whether  Aspirational  District  No. of  Villages  Uttar Pradesh  Bahraich   Mihinpurwa, Nawabganj, Risia and  Fakharpur (Intensive Interventions)  Yes  323  All 14 Blocks under (Child  Protection Interventions)  Yes   All  Shrawasti   All 5 Blocks   Yes   192  Entire District including   Jamunaha  (1292 Govt. Schools)  Yes   589  Amethi   Gauriganj   Yes   032  Siddhartnagar   All 14 Blocks   Yes   All  Balrampur   All 9 Blocks   Yes   All  Sonbhadra   All 8 Blocks   Yes   All  Maharashtra  Gadchiroli  All 12  Blocks/Kshetra  Tehsil  Yes   All  Nandurbar   All 6 Talukas   Yes   All  Washim   All 6   Kshetra  Panchayats   Yes   All  Osmanabad   All 8 Tehsil   Yes   All

How do we Monitor our Interventions?  Each of these step involves 360 °   approach of Joint Reflection Learning and  Change and Monitoring Evaluation Accountability and Learning (MEAL) tools.  Step 1   Step 2   Step 3   Step 4

Thank You  Please reach out to us either at   joinus@dehatindia.org   or   devyani@dehatindia.org  You can call us at +91 9415054079 and visit our website for more information   www.dehatindia.org